# scIsoSeq-Analysis-Tools

High-throughput single-cell RNA sequencing is a powerful technique advance gene expression regulation research to a higher resolution level for single cells, but only generates short reads from one end of a cDNA template, limiting the reconstruction of highly diverse isofrom. Recent technological advancements in high-throughput scRNA-Seq methods such Droplet-based single-cell sequencing allow thousands of cells to be captured and sequenced in a relatively short time frame and at a fraction of the cost. Such methods rely on capture of polyadenylated mRNA transcripts followed by cDNA synthesis, pooling, amplification, library construction, and short-read 3’ cDNA sequencing.

The combination of fragmentation and short-read sequencing fails to sufficiently sequence the Alternative splicing transcripts. Consequently, 3’-tag scRNA-Seq platforms have limited application for determining clonotypic information from large numbers of lymphocytes. Recent advances in long-read sequencing technologies present a potential solution to the shortcomings of short-read sequencing. Full-length cDNA reads can encompass the entire sequence of BCR and TCR transcripts, but typically suffer from higher error rates and lower sequencing depth than short-read technologies.

One limitation for current high throughput single-cell platforms (such as droplet, microwell or combinatorial indexing based methods) is that only 3’ or 5’ end exonic read can be measured on short-read based sequencing platforms. The tag information can only be used for expression quantification but does not allow transcriptomic analyses such as alternative splicing and structural variation in a high-throughput manner. However, full-length cDNA library can be obtained from these platforms including C4 system. One potential approach to achieve full-length cDNA sequencing is to combine long read sequencing techniques such as long fragment read (LFR) technology, which has been widely used for DNA sequencing. Moreover, C4 could be an extendable platform for efficient profiling of other omics layers, such as chromatin accessibility or simultaneous profiling of multi-omics at single-cell resolution, with specific modifications to oligo on the micro-particles. Overall, C4 is a promising candidate single-cell system for high-throughput multimodal study of single cells, paving the way to a thorough assessment of cellular heterogeneity in a variety of basic research and clinical applications.

https://github.com/shizhuoxing/BGI-Full-Length-RNA-Analysis-Pipeline/wiki
